I"Œ<p>‚ÄúGeoscientist with experience in or willingness to learn R programming for reproducible research wanted!‚Äù I had just completed a beginner course in R programming for my master‚Äôs thesis and saw my chance to further develop this knowledge and enter the geoinformatic field, also get a little away from the pure ecology of my master studies in landscape ecology. I had never before heard of the words ‚Äúreproducible research‚Äù, neither heard of any reason why this topic is of importance. I took the job and worked my way in. After a couple of months I had to realize that to publish my master‚Äôs thesis in an international journal, all code and data had to be made freely available to enable other researchers to fully understand and reuse my analysis. And there I was, as a landscape ecologist who believed I had nothing to do with reproducible research. Apparently it is not that simple after all.</p>

<p>During my work in the o2r project I experienced the whole range of reasons why people struggle so much making their work reproducible for others. The main argument, also for me, was this giant amount of additional work. Is it really worth it, I thought? I also believed I had my own structure while scripting and it is way easier for me not to script in order to make other people understand my analysis, but to make myself understand it. ‚ÄúI would have to spend an entire year of my PhD, just to prepare all scripts again for everyone to comprehend‚Äù, said some PhD students from the atmospheric sciences to me. The desire for reproducibility in research is not always an open door. But maybe it‚Äôs the same as for everything else. A clean method of working should always be the goal. A student in school should write cleanly so that the teacher can read his essay. Every company needs a well organised structure and a clean and transparent way of working to be successful. Scripting, so that only oneself and no one else can understand what has been calculated, may in the short term have its own order that the writer understands. After two years at the latest, however, not even the author himself looks through his work and could answer specific questions about his calculations. If we are honest, it happens far too often that we lose the overview in the chaos and don‚Äôt know exactly what we thought at that time, which scripts contain which results, how a certain parameter was calculated, how to see what the results would look like if we would change certain values. Getting it right from the beginning is not an extra effort, it is just a change in the way we work, which saves us time in the long run. And not only for us, but also for many others who no longer need to reask or redo the things themselves.</p>

<p>Now that I finished my master‚Äôs thesis, my time in the o2r project is over and I am starting my PhD at a research institute. During my job interview they asked me quite a lot of details about my work at o2r, about limitations, obstacles, about difficulties and successes. This signals to me that reproducibility is not only gladly implemented, but is also an inevitable change that everyone must consider and adapt to, even if it is sometimes bothersome and entails some difficulties that we did not have to think about before. For me, reproducibility also has a social component. To do things not only for oneself, but for making others‚Äô work easier and letting them benefit from one‚Äôs own method. For my PhD, I am taking along to learn this method of working at best practice, because it certainly takes a lot of training. As a beginner in the scientific world, I strongly hope for my PhD to also get help by detailed insights into the scripts of more experienced scientists in order to facilitate my entry into scientific work.</p>
:ET